# Secure Home Energy Management (SHEM)
This project aims to design and implement a home energy management system that is secure against cyberattacks, easy to use, and compatible with a wide range of devices. It will be able to forecast power consumption and PV generation, download energy prices and grid tariffs, use all this data to find an optimal load profile for your flexible devices such as battery storage units and electric vehicle chargers, and control those devices to follow the optimized behavior.

## Rationale
An increasing number of people make use of solar power, battery storage units, and/or electric vehicles. The flexibility of these devices can be used to lower energy costs or increase revenue, for example by optimizing against energy prices that change hourly or even every quarter hour. Some companies offer to do this optimization for you and directly control your devices. However, such a direct control opens the possibility of cyberattacks. If an attacker can control enough of these devices, they can easily overpower the existing safeguards in our power system and cause blackouts. Hence the need for a secure, decentralized home energy management system.

## Design
SHEM will follow a strict Security-By-Design approach. All device drivers, optimizers, data fetching units, and other components will be small modules. Modules will be controlled by an orchestrator, which monitors module behavior, restricts internet access to modules that really need it, controls and sanitizes communication between modules, and keeps the modules up to date. Modules are isolated from each other. Care is taken that if a certain module is corrupted, the possible consequences are minimized. This applies in particular to the possibility of coordinated attacks using many instances of SHEM, which otherwise might have consequences for the energy system as a whole. The system design is detailed in [design.md](./design.md).